Quite the opposite!...

Suddenly he stopped; a new, completely unexpected and extremely simple question immediately threw him off and greatly surprised him:

"If indeed all this was done deliberately, not foolishly, if you really had a definite and firm goal, then how come you have not even looked into your wallet up to now and don't know what you have received, for which you have endured all these sufferings, and for which you deliberately went on such a low, nasty, and despicable course? You even wanted to throw it all into the water now, the wallet, together with all the things you hadn't even seen yet... What on earth is going on?"

Yes, that's exactly it; everything is just like that. He had known this all along, and it was not a new question for him at all; and when it was decided at night to throw everything into the water, it was decided without any hesitation or objection, as though it was only natural, as though there was no other way... Yes, he knew everything and remembered everything; almost as if it had been decided yesterday, right at the moment when he was sitting by the chest and taking out the cases from it... And that's exactly what happened!... 'It's because I'm very ill,' he grumpily decided at last, 'I have tortured and torn myself apart, and I don't even know what I'm doing... And yesterday, and the day before, and all this time I've been tormenting myself... I'll recover and... stop tormenting myself... What if I never recover at all? Lord! I'm sick and tired of it all!...' He kept walking without stopping. He desperately wanted to somehow relieve himself, but he didn't know what to do or what to take action. A single new, insurmountable feeling was taking hold of him more and more, almost with every minute: it was some kind of infinite, almost physical repulsion towards everything he encountered and surrounding, persistent, spiteful, hateful. He found everyone he met repulsive—repulsive were their faces, their gait, their movements. He just wanted to spit on someone, perhaps even bite someone if they spoke to him...

He suddenly stopped when he reached the embankment of the Small Neva, on Vasilyevsky Island, near the bridge.