Not at all!...

Suddenly, he stopped; a new, completely unexpected and extremely simple question immediately threw him off balance and bitterly surprised him:

"If indeed all this was done deliberately, not foolishly, if you really had a definite and firm goal, then how come you have not even looked into your wallet up to now and don't know what you have received, for which you have endured all these torments, and for which you deliberately went on this low, nasty, and despicable deed? You even wanted to throw it all into the water now, the wallet, together with all the things you hadn't even seen yet... How is that possible?"

Yes, that's true; everything is like that. He, however, had known this before, and it was not a new question for him; and when it was decided at night to throw everything into the water, it was decided without any hesitation or objection, as if it was only natural, as if there was no other way... Yes, he knew everything and remembered everything; almost as if it had been decided yesterday, at the very moment when he was sitting by the chest and taking out the cases from it... And that's exactly what happened!... 'It's because I'm very ill,' he grumpily decided at last, 'I have tortured and torn myself apart myself, and I don't even know what I'm doing... And yesterday, and three days ago, and all this time I've tormented myself... I'll recover and... stop tormenting myself... What if I never recover at all? Lord! How tired I am of all this!...' He kept walking without stopping. He desperately wanted to somehow relieve himself, but he didn't know what to do or what to take action. One new, insurmountable feeling was taking over him more and more, almost with every minute: it was some kind of infinite, almost physical repulsion towards everything he had encountered and everything surrounding him, persistent, spiteful, hateful. He found everyone he met repulsive— their faces, their gait, their movements. He simply wanted to spit on someone, to bite someone, perhaps, if someone spoke to him...

He suddenly stopped when he reached the embankment of the Small Neva, on Vasilyevsky Island, near the bridge.