—Oh, have mercy on me, captain, he began quite freely, addressing Nikodim Fomich suddenly, — take an interest in my situation... I'm even willing to ask them for forgiveness if I made any mistakes on my part. I am a poor and sick student, depressed (he said it himself: "depressed") by poverty. I was a student because now I cannot support myself, but I will receive money... My mother and sister are in the — y province. They'll send me some, and I... will pay. My landlady is a kind woman, but she's so angry that I lost my lessons and haven't paid for four months, not even to eat... And I don't understand at all what this promissory note is! Now she's demanding from me the loan of this letter, what am I supposed to do? — But it's not our business... — the clerk noted again...

—Allow me, allow me, I completely agree with you, but let me explain myself too, — Rascolnikov picked up again, addressing Nikodim Fomich, but trying to address both him and Ilia Petrovich as well, although the latter stubbornly pretended not to notice him, digging through papers with disdain. — Allow me to clarify that I've been living with her for about three years now, since my arrival from the province and before... before... anyway, why shouldn't I confess it too? From the very beginning, I gave her a verbal promise that I would marry her daughter, a completely free promise... That was a girl... well, she even liked me... although I wasn't in love with her... one word, youth, that is, I want to say that my landlady made many loans to me then and I lived partly such a life... I was very frivolous...

—We don't need such intimate details from you, sir, and there's no time for it, — Ilia Petrovich roughly interrupted him with triumph, but Rascolnikov stopped him with passion, although it became extremely difficult for him to speak suddenly. — But allow me, allow me to tell you part of the story... how things were and... in my turn... even though it's unnecessary, I agree with you that I should be telling this... — but a year ago, this girl died from typhus, and I remained a tenant as before, and when our landlady moved to her current apartment, she said to me... and said kindly... that she was completely confident in me and everything... but that maybe I wouldn't want to give her this promissory note for 115 rubles, which she considered my debt. Allow me: she exactly said that as soon as I gave her this paper, she would start lending me again as much as I wanted and that she would never, ever — these were her own words — use this paper until I pay myself... And now, when I've lost my lessons and have nothing to eat, she's sending it for collection... What am I supposed to say? — All these sensitive details, sir, are none of our business, — Ilia Petrovich brutally cut him off. — You need to give a review and an obligation, and what you were in love with and all those tragic places, we don't care about any of that.