—Please have mercy, Captain, he began quite freely, addressing Nikodim Fyodorovich suddenly — take an interest in my situation... I'm even willing to ask them for forgiveness if I made any mistakes on my part. I'm a poor and sick student, depressed (he said it himself: "depressed") by poverty. I used to be a student because now I can't support myself, but I'll get the money... My mother and sister are in — y province. They'll send me some, and I... will pay. My landlady is a kind woman, but she's so angry that I lost my lessons and haven't paid for four months, not even to eat... And I don't understand at all what this promissory note is! Now she's demanding payment from me on the basis of this loan letter, what am I supposed to do? — But it's not our business, anyway... — the clerk noted again...

—Allow me, allow me, I completely agree with you, but let me explain myself too, — Rascolnikov picked up again, addressing Nikodim Fyodorovich, but trying to address Ilia Petrovich as well, although he stubbornly pretended not to notice him and looked at the papers with disdain — Allow me to clarify that I've been living with her for about three years now, since my arrival from the province and before... before... Well, why shouldn't I confess it? From the very beginning, I gave her a verbal promise that I would marry her daughter. It was a free promise, completely voluntary... She was a girl... well, she even pleased me... although I wasn't in love with her... In short, youth, that is, I want to say that my landlady made many loans to me then and I lived a rather carefree life... I was very reckless...

—We don't need such intimate details from you, sir, and there's no time for it, — Ilia Petrovich roughly interrupted him, but Rascolnikov stopped him with passion, although it became extremely difficult for him to speak suddenly. — But allow me, please, to tell you a bit about what happened... how things were... in my turn... although this is unnecessary, I agree with you that I should be telling you, — but last year the girl died of typhus, and I remained a tenant as before, and when she moved to her current apartment, she said to me... and said kindly... that she was completely confident in me and everything... but that perhaps I wouldn't want to give her this promissory note for 115 rubles, which she considered my debt. Please: she exactly said that if I gave her this document, she would start lending me as much as I wanted again, and that she would never use this document herself — these were her own words — until I paid myself... And now, when I've lost my lessons and have nothing to eat, she's sending it for collection... What am I supposed to say? 

—All these sensitive details, sir, are irrelevant to us, — Ilia Petrovich brutally cut him off — you should give a review and an obligation, and what you were in love with and all those tragic places, we don't care about any of it.