Not at all!...”

He suddenly stopped; a new, completely unexpected and extremely simple question simultaneously threw him off balance and bitterly astonished him:

“If indeed everything was done consciously, not carelessly, if you really had a definite and firm goal, then how did you still not even glance into the wallet and don't know what you got, due to which all the torments you took on and deliberately went for such a vile, disgusting, low thing? You see, you wanted to throw the wallet in the water now, together with all the things you haven’t seen yet... How is this?"

Yes, it's like that; everything is just like that. He, however, knew this before, and it wasn't even a new question for him; and when it was decided to throw everything into the water at night, it was decided without any hesitation or objection, as if it had to be so, as if otherwise it couldn’t be... Yes, he knew all this and remembered it well; maybe it was almost decided yesterday too, in that very moment when he sat on the trunk and rummaged through its cases...

And indeed! “It's because I'm extremely ill,” he finally decided gloomily, “I've tormented and tortured myself, and don't even know what I’m doing... And yesterday, and two days ago, and all this time I’ve been tormenting myself... I'll get well and... won’t torment myself anymore... But what if I don’t recover at all? God! How tired I am of it all..."

He walked without stopping. He desperately wanted to distract himself somehow, but he didn't know what to do or what to try. One new, insurmountable feeling was taking hold of him more and more with almost every minute: it was some kind of endless, almost physical disgust for everything that met his eyes and surrounded him, stubborn, malicious, hateful.

All the people he encountered seemed repulsive to him – their faces, gait, movements. He would have spat on someone, bitten them, it seemed, if anyone had spoken to him...

He suddenly stopped when he came out onto the Malaya Nevka embankment, on Vasilyevsky Island, near the bridge.