Not at all!...”

He stopped suddenly; a new, completely unexpected and extremely simple question struck him with confusion and bitterly surprised him:

“If indeed everything was done consciously, not carelessly, if you really had a definite and firm goal, then how did you still not even glance into the wallet and don't know what you got, because of which you took all the torments and went to such a vile, disgusting, low deed consciously? Ah, but you wanted to throw the wallet in the water now, together with all the things that you haven't seen yet... How is this?"

Yes, it's like that; everything is just like that. He, however, knew this before, and this was not a new question for him; and when it was decided at night to throw everything into the water, it was decided without any hesitation or objection, as if it had to be so, as if otherwise it would be impossible... Yes, he knew all this and remembered it well; yes, maybe it was decided like that even yesterday, in that very moment when he sat over the trunk and pulled out the cases from it... And indeed! “It's because I'm very sick,” he finally decided gloomily, “I've tormented and tortured myself, and don't know what I'm doing... And yesterday, and two days ago, and all this time I've been tormenting myself... I'll get well and... won't torture myself anymore... But if I don't recover at all? God! How tired I am of it all!..”

He walked without stopping. He terribly wanted to somehow dissipate himself, but he didn't know what to do or what to undertake. One new, insurmountable feeling was taking hold of him more and more with almost every minute: it was some kind of endless, almost physical disgust for everything that met and surrounded him, stubborn, malicious, hateful. All the people he encountered were disgusting to him – their faces, gait, movements were disgusting. He would have spat on someone, bitten them, it seemed, if anyone had spoken to him...

He stopped suddenly when he came out onto the embankment of the Little Neva, on Vasilyevsky Island, near the bridge.