— Forgive me, Captain, — he began rather boldly, suddenly addressing Nicholas Fomich, — consider my situation… I am even ready to ask them for forgiveness, if I have done anything wrong on my part. I am a poor and sick student, disheartened (he said exactly: "disheartened") by poverty. I was a student, because now I cannot support myself, but I will get money… My mother and sister are in — th province. They will send me, and I… will pay. My landlady is a good woman, but she has become so angry that I lost my lessons and haven't paid for four months, that she doesn't even send me lunch… And I don't at all understand what this promissory note is! Now she is demanding from me, by this loan note, that I pay her, judge for yourselves!… — But this is not our affair… — the clerk remarked again…

— Allow me, allow me, I completely agree with you, but allow me also to explain, — Raskolnikov took up again, addressing not the clerk, but all of Nicholas Fomich, though trying with all his strength to also address Ilya Petrovich, although the latter stubbornly pretended to be searching through papers and disdainfully ignored him, — allow me also to explain from my side that I have been living with her for about three years, since my arrival from the provinces and before… before… in any case, why shouldn't I confess, from the beginning I gave her a promise that I would marry her daughter, a verbal promise, completely free… She was a girl… in any case, she even liked me… although I wasn't in love… in a word, youth, that is, I mean to say, that the landlady gave me a lot of credit then and I led partly such a life… I was very reckless…

— You are not required to provide such intimate details, sir, and there is no time for it, — Ilya Petrovich roughly and triumphantly interrupted, but Raskolnikov warmly stopped him, although it was extremely hard for him suddenly to speak. — But allow me, allow me to tell you partly everything… how it happened and… in turn… although it is indeed unnecessary, I agree with you, to tell, — but a year ago this girl died of typhus, and I remained as a lodger, as before, and the landlady, when she moved to her present apartment, said to me… and said kindly… that she completely trusted me and everything… but that whether I would like to give her this loan note for one hundred and fifteen rubles, all that she considered as my debt. Allow me, she exactly said, that as soon as I give this paper, she would again credit me as much as I wanted and that never, never, in turn, — these were her own words, — she would use this paper, as long as I myself pay… And now, when I have lost my lessons and have nothing to eat, she is already demanding it for collection… What shall I say now? — All these sensitive details, sir, have nothing to do with us, — Ilya Petrovich rudely cut in, — you must give your opinion and obligation, and what you were in love and all these tragic details, we have nothing to do with.