— My lord, captain, — he began rather boldly, suddenly addressing Nicholas Fomich, — do consider my situation… I am even ready to ask them for forgiveness, if I have erred on my part. I am a poor and sick student, disheartened (he said exactly: "disheartened") by poverty. I was a student, because now I cannot support myself, but I will get money… My mother and sister are in — th province. They will send me, and I… will pay. My landlady is a good woman, but she was so angry that I lost my lessons and haven't paid for the fourth month, that she doesn't even send me lunch… And I don't at all understand what this promissory note is! Now she demands from me, by this loan note, that I pay her, judge for yourselves!… — But this is not our affair… — the clerk remarked again…

— Allow me, allow me, I entirely agree with you, but allow me also to explain, — Raskolnikov took up again, not addressing the clerk, but addressing entirely Nicholas Fomich, though trying with all his strength to address also Ilya Petrovich, although the latter obstinately pretended to be searching through papers and disdainfully ignored him, — allow me also to explain from my side that I have been living with her for about three years, since my arrival from the provinces and before… before… in any case, why shouldn't I confess, from the very beginning I gave a promise that I would marry her daughter, a verbal promise, completely free… She was a girl… in any case, she even liked me… although I wasn't in love… in a word, youth, that is, I mean to say, that the landlady gave me a lot of credit then and I led partly such a life… I was very frivolous…

— You are not required to disclose such intimate details, my lord, and there is no time for it, — Ilya Petrovich roughly and triumphantly interrupted, but Raskolnikov warmly stopped him, although it was extremely hard for him suddenly to speak. — But allow me, allow me to tell you partly everything… how it happened and… in turn… although it is indeed unnecessary, I agree with you, to tell, — but a year ago this girl died of typhus, and I remained a lodger as before, and when the landlady moved to her present apartment, she told me… and she told me kindly… that she was entirely confident in me and everything… but that whether I would like to give her this loan note for one hundred and fifteen rubles, all that she considered as my debt. Allow me, she exactly said, that as soon as I give this paper, she would again credit me as much as I wanted and that never, never, in turn—these were her own words—she would use this paper, as long as I myself pay… And now, when I have lost my lessons and have nothing to offer, she is already demanding it for collection… What shall I say now? — All these sensitive details, my lord, are not our concern, — Ilya Petrovich rudely cut in, — you must give your testimony and an undertaking, and what you were in love and all these tragic episodes, we have nothing to do with.