The pain from the whip had subsided, and Raskolnikov had forgotten about the blow; a single restless and not quite clear thought now occupied him exclusively. He stood and gazed into the distance for a long time, intently; this place was especially familiar to him. When he walked to the university, it usually happened—more often than not, when returning home—that he would stop exactly at this same spot, gaze intently at this truly magnificent panorama, and each time almost marvel at one obscure and unsolvable impression of his own. An inexplicable coldness always seemed to emanate from this magnificent panorama; this rich picture was full of a silent and deaf spirit… Each time he marveled at his own gloomy and enigmatic impression and postponed solving it, doubting himself, to the future. Now suddenly he sharply recalled these former questions and uncertainties of his, and it seemed to him that he had not accidentally recalled them now. It seemed strange and strange to him that he had stopped at the same spot again, as before, as if he had indeed imagined that he could think about the same things now as before, and be interested in the same themes and pictures as before, which he had been interested in just so recently. It almost seemed funny to him at the same time, and yet it pressed painfully on his chest. In some depth, below, somewhere barely visible under his feet, he now felt all this former past, these former thoughts, these former tasks, these former themes, these former impressions, and this entire panorama, himself, and everything, everything… It seemed as if he was flying somewhere upward and everything was vanishing from his eyes… Making one involuntary movement with his hand, he suddenly felt a double-grivna coin clenched in his fist. He opened his hand, looked intently at the coin, swung his arm, and threw it into the water; then he turned around and went home. It seemed to him as if he had cut himself off from everything and everyone in that moment with scissors.