The pain from the whip had subsided, and Raskolnikov had forgotten about the blow; a restless and not entirely clear thought now occupied him exclusively. He stood and gazed into the distance for a long time and intently; this place was especially familiar to him. When he used to go to the university, it often happened—more often than not, when returning home—that he would stop precisely at this same spot, gaze intently at this truly magnificent panorama, and each time almost marvel at one obscure and unsolvable impression of his own. An inexplicable coldness always seemed to waft toward him from this magnificent panorama; this rich picture was full of a silent and heavy spirit… He was always fascinated by his somber and enigmatic impression and postponed solving it, distrusting himself, to the future. Now suddenly he sharply recalled these former questions and doubts of his, and it seemed to him that he had not accidentally remembered them now. It seemed strange and strange to him that he had stopped at the same spot again, as before, as if he had indeed imagined that he could think about the same things now as before, and be interested in the same themes and pictures as before… just so recently. It almost seemed funny to him at the same time, and his chest constricted painfully. In some depth, below, somewhere barely visible under his feet, it seemed to him now all this former past, and former thoughts, and former tasks, and former themes, and former impressions, and the entire panorama, and himself, and everything, everything… It seemed as if he was flying somewhere upward and everything was vanishing from his eyes… Making an involuntary movement with his hand, he suddenly felt a double-rouble coin clenched in his fist. He uncurled his fingers, looked intently at the coin, swung his arm, and threw it into the water; then he turned around and went home. It seemed to him as if he had somehow cut himself off from everything and everyone with scissors at that moment.