Not at all!...”

He suddenly stopped; a new, completely unexpected and extremely simple question simultaneously threw him off track and bitterly amazed him:

“If indeed everything was done consciously, not carelessly, if you really had a specific and firm goal, then how did you still not even glance into the wallet and don't know what you got, which is why you took all the troubles and deliberately went to such a vile, disgusting, low thing? You see, you wanted to throw the wallet in the water now, along with all the things you haven’t seen yet... How is this?"

Yes, it's like that; everything is just like that. He, however, knew this before, and it was not a new question for him; and when it was decided to throw it into the water at night, it was decided without any hesitation or objection, as if it had to be so, as if otherwise it couldn't be... Yes, he knew all this and remembered everything; yes, maybe it was almost decided yesterday itself, in that very moment when he sat over the trunk and pulled out the cases from it... And indeed! “It's because I'm very sick,” he finally decided gloomily, “I've tormented and tortured myself, and I don't even know what I'm doing... And yesterday, and the day before yesterday, and all this time I've been tormenting myself... I'll get well and... won’t torture myself anymore... But if I don’t recover at all? God! How tired I am of it all!..”

He walked without stopping. He terribly wanted to somehow dissipate himself, but he didn't know what to do or what to undertake. One new, insurmountable feeling was taking hold of him more and more with almost every minute: it was some kind of endless, almost physical disgust for everything that met and surrounded him, persistent, malicious, hateful. All the people he encountered were disgusting to him – their faces, gait, movements. He would have spat on someone, bitten them, it seemed, if anyone had spoken to him...

He suddenly stopped when he came out onto the embankment of the Little Neva, on Vasilyevsky Island, near the bridge.