Not at all!...”

He stopped suddenly; a new, completely unexpected and extremely simple question simultaneously threw him off balance and bitterly surprised him:

“If indeed everything was done consciously, not carelessly, if you really had a definite and firm goal, then how did you still not even glance into the wallet and don't know what you got, due to which all the torments you took on and deliberately went for such a vile, disgusting, low thing? You were about to throw the wallet, along with all the things you haven’t seen yet, into the water... How is this?"

Yes, it's like that; everything is just like that. He, however, knew this before, and it was not a new question for him; and when it was decided at night to throw everything into the water, it was decided without any hesitation or objection, as if it had to be so, as if otherwise it would be impossible... Yes, he knew all this and remembered it well; yes, maybe it was decided yesterday itself, in that very moment when he sat over the trunk and rummaged through its cases...

And indeed! “It's because I'm extremely ill,” he finally decided gloomily, “I've tormented and tortured myself, and don't even know what I'm doing... And yesterday, and two days ago, and all this time I've been tormenting myself... I'll recover and... won’t torment myself anymore... But what if I don’t recover at all? God! How tired I am of it all..."

He walked without stopping. He desperately wanted to somehow dissipate his thoughts, but he didn't know what to do or what to undertake. One new, insurmountable feeling was taking hold of him more and more with almost every minute: it was some kind of endless, almost physical revulsion towards everything that met and surrounded him, stubborn, malicious, hateful.

All the people he encountered seemed repulsive to him – their faces, gait, movements were repulsive. He would have spat on someone, bitten them, it seemed, if anyone had spoken to him...

He stopped suddenly when he came out onto the embankment of the Little Neva, on Vasilyevsky Island, near the bridge.