—Please have mercy, Captain, he began quite freely, addressing Nikodim Fyodorovich suddenly — take an interest in my situation... I'm even willing to ask them for forgiveness if I made any mistakes on my part. I'm a poor and sick student, depressed (he said it himself: "depressed") by poverty. I was a student once, but now I can no longer support myself, but I'll get the money... My mother and sister are in the — province. They'll send me some, and I... will pay back. My landlady is a kind woman, but she's so angry that I lost my lessons and haven't paid for four months, not even to eat... And I don't understand at all what this promissory note is! Now she's demanding payment from me on the basis of this loan letter, what am I supposed to do? — But it's not our business, anyway... — the clerk noted again...

—Allow me, allow me, I completely agree with you, but let me explain myself too, — Rascolnikov picked up again, addressing Nikodim Fyodorovich, but trying to address Ilia Petrovich as well, although he stubbornly pretended not to notice him and looked at the papers with disdain — Allow me to clarify that I've been living with her for about three years now, since my arrival from the province and before... before... anyway, why shouldn't I confess it? From the very beginning, I gave her a verbal promise that I would marry her daughter, a completely free promise... She was a girl... well, she even pleased me... although I wasn't in love with her... one word, youth, that is, I want to say that my landlady made many loans to me then and I lived a rather carefree life...

—We don't need such intimate details from you, sir, and there's no time for it, — Ilia Petrovich roughly interrupted him, but Rascolnikov stopped him with passion, although it became very difficult for him to speak suddenly. — But allow me, allow me to tell you a bit of the story... how things were and... in my turn... although this is unnecessary, I agree with you that I should be telling you, — but last year this girl died of typhus, and I remained a tenant as before, and when she moved to her current apartment, she said to me... and said kindly... that she was completely confident in me and everything... but that maybe I wouldn't want to give her this loan letter for 115 rubles, which she considered my debt. Allow me: she actually said that if I gave her this document, she would start lending me as much as I wanted again and that she would never use this document herself, until I pay back myself... And now, when I've lost my lessons and have nothing to eat, she's sending it to be collected... What am I supposed to say? — All these sensitive details, sir, are irrelevant to us, — Ilia Petrovich brutally cut him off — you need to give a review and an obligation, and what you were in love with and all those tragic events, we don't care about any of that.