—"Please have mercy, captain," he began quite freely, addressing Nikodim Fyodorovich suddenly, "take my situation into account... I'm even willing to ask them for forgiveness if I've made any mistakes on my part. I'm a poor and sick student, depressed (he said it himself: 'depressed') by poverty. I used to be a student because now I can no longer support myself, but I'll receive money... My mother and sister are in the — province. They'll send me some, and I... will pay. My landlady is a kind woman, but she's so angry that I've lost my lessons and haven't paid for four months, not even to eat... And I don't understand at all what this promissory note is! Now she's demanding payment from me on the basis of this loan letter, what am I supposed to do?!" —"But it's not our business..." was again noted by the clerk...

—"Allow me, allow me," Rascolnikov picked up again, addressing not the clerk but Nikodim Fyodorovich, but trying to address both him and Ilia Petrovich as well, although the latter stubbornly pretended to be rummaging through papers and disdainfully ignored him, "allow me to explain from my side that I've been living with her for about three years now, since I arrived in the province and before... before... anyway, why shouldn't I confess it right away? From the very beginning, I gave her a verbal promise that I would marry her daughter, a completely free promise... She was a girl... well, she even pleased me... although I wasn't in love with her... in short, youth, that is, I want to say that my landlady was then giving me a lot of credit and I lived partly such a life... I was very reckless..."

—"We don't require such intimate details from you, sir, and there's no time," Ilia Petrovich roughly interrupted him with triumph, but Rascolnikov stopped him with passion, although it became extremely difficult for him to speak suddenly. —"But allow me, allow me to tell you part of the story... how things were and... in my turn... although this is unnecessary, I agree with you that I should be telling," but a year ago this girl died from typhus, and I remained a tenant as before, and when she moved to her current apartment, she said to me... and said kindly... that she was completely confident in me and everything... but that maybe I wouldn't want to give her this promissory note for 115 rubles, which she considered my debt. Allow me: she exactly said that as soon as I gave her this document, she would start crediting me again as much as I wanted and that she would never, ever—these were her own words—use this document until I pay myself... And now, when I've lost my lessons and have nothing to eat, she's sending it for collection... What am I supposed to say? —"All these sensitive details, sir, are irrelevant to us," Ilia Petrovich brutally cut him off, "you need to give a review and an obligation, and what you were in love with and all those tragic places, we don't care about this at all."